README.md, before:

# Vox2Pictoria

![Release](https://github.com/PictoriaWorld/Vox2Pictoria/actions/workflows/release.yml/badge.svg)

A command-line tool that converts [MagicaVoxel](https://ephtracy.github.io/) `.vox` files into art for [Pictoria](https://pictoria.world).

![Vox2Pictoria](Vox2Pictoria/assets/vox_to_pictoria.png)

## Overview

### What is Pictoria?
Pictoria is a web-based, isometric social MMO.

Users buy properties (plots of land) and build structures on them.

Structures can be sized and positioned, as well as textured using uploaded 2D images.

### What is MagicaVoxel?
MagicaVoxel is a free voxel (volumetric pixel/textured cube) art editor with a gentle learning curve.

It allows users, including non-artists, to create beautiful 3D scenes, which can be exported as `.vox` files.

### What is Vox2Pictoria?
Vox2Pictoria is a program that takes a `.vox` file and produces locations, shapes, and 2D images for creating structures in Pictoria.

## Prerequisites
- [MagicaVoxel 0.99.7.2](https://ephtracy.github.io/) (for creating `.vox` files)

## Installation

1. Download the latest release for your platform from the [Releases](https://github.com/PictoriaWorld/Vox2Pictoria/releases) page. 
   - *Note: at the time of this writing, we've only tested the Windows release; feel free to open an issue if you encounter problems on Mac or Linux.*
   - *Also note: the releases are fairly large because they include Blender 4.5 LTS, which is used for rendering.*

2. Extract the zipped folder. Rename it to `Vox2Pictoria` and move it to a permanent location (e.g. `C:\Vox2Pictoria` on Windows or `~/Vox2Pictoria` on Mac/Linux).

3. Configure the executable for CLI usage:

   - **Windows**:
     Search for "environment variables" in the Start menu, click *Edit the system environment variables > Environment Variables*, select `Path` under User variables, click *Edit*, and add the extracted folder path (e.g. `C:\Vox2Pictoria`). Restart your terminal afterward.

   - **Mac**:
     Open Terminal and run the following commands to make the binaries executable and unblock them:
     ```bash
     chmod +x ~/Vox2Pictoria/Vox2Pictoria ~/Vox2Pictoria/blender/blender
     xattr -cr ~/Vox2Pictoria
     ```
     Add `export PATH="$HOME/Vox2Pictoria:$PATH"` to your `~/.zshrc` file to add to PATH permanently.

   - **Linux**:
     Make the binaries executable:
     ```bash
     chmod +x ~/Vox2Pictoria/Vox2Pictoria ~/Vox2Pictoria/blender/blender
     ```
     Add `export PATH="$HOME/Vox2Pictoria:$PATH"` to your `~/.bashrc` file to add to PATH permanently.

4. Verify the installation by opening a new terminal and running:
   ```bash
   Vox2Pictoria --help
   ```

## Usage

1. Create a `.vox` file in MagicaVoxel, following the instructions in [MagicaVoxel Scene Setup](#magicavoxel-scene-setup) below.

2. Open a command line tool like PowerShell on Windows, Terminal on Mac/Linux. Navigate to the directory your `.vox` is in.

3. Run Vox2Pictoria in scene-test-run mode to preview the full scene:

   ```bash
   Vox2Pictoria --scene-test-run
   ```

4. The command above generates a single 2D image of the full scene - `<directory your .vox is in>/temp/renders/scene.png`. Verify that it looks correct - colors, composition, etc. If you decide to make changes to your `.vox`, repeat step 3 to re-preview.

5. Once satisfied, navigate to [Pictoria](https://pictoria.world) in your browser. In Pictoria, navigate to *create > properties > buy* and create a selection of tiles that fits your MagicaVoxel scene.

6. Note down the *Min tile-x* and *Min tile-z* coordinates of your tile selection in Pictoria.

7. Buy the property in Pictoria.

8. Run a full render in the directory your `.vox` is in, specifying the *Min tile-x* and *Min tile-z* coordinates you noted earlier:

   ```bash
   Vox2Pictoria --full-samples --full-resolution --min-tile-x <minTileX> --min-tile-z <minTileZ>
   ```

   *Warning*: This can take several hours to complete, depending on the complexity of your MagicaVoxel scene and the performance of your computer.

9. When step 8 completes, you'll find output images in `bin/images/`. You'll also find `structure_infos.json` in `bin/` - this file contains all of the data you need to create structures in Pictoria (structure names, locations, and shapes).

10. In Pictoria, with the property you created earlier selected (*create > properties > select*), navigate to *edit > structures > create*.

11. Drag on the property to start a selection, then enter a structure's name, location, and shape from the `structure_infos.json` file. Click *Select Images* and upload the corresponding image for the structure from the `bin/images/` directory. Finally, scroll down and click *buy*. Repeat this step for all structures in the `structure_infos.json` file.

12. Congratulations! You have successfully created a property in Pictoria using MagicaVoxel and Vox2Pictoria.

### Arguments

```
Usage: Vox2Pictoria [vox-path] [options]
```

| Argument / Option | Default | Description |
|-------------------|---------|-------------|
| `vox-path` | First `.vox` in current directory | Path to the `.vox` file. |
| `--min-tile-x <int>` | `0` | Minimum tile-X coordinate of the property in Pictoria. |
| `--min-tile-z <int>` | `0` | Minimum tile-Z coordinate of the property in Pictoria. |
| `--scene-test-run` | off | When specified, only a single 2D image of the full scene is rendered. Useful for previewing. |
| `--full-samples` | off | When specified, renders images at maximum quality (2048 Blender Cycles samples) - specify for final render. When not specified, 32 samples are used (faster, useful for previewing). |
| `--full-resolution` | off | When specified, renders a larger image for higher quality after resizing - specify for final render. When not specified, renders a smaller image (faster, useful for previewing). |
| `-o, --output <dir>` | Current directory | Output directory. |
| `-h, --help` | N/A | Show usage information. |

### Examples

Generate a single image of the full scene for previewing, assumes `.vox` is in the current directory:
```bash
Vox2Pictoria --scene-test-run
```

Generate all structure images at low quality for previewing, assumes `.vox` is in the current directory:
```bash
Vox2Pictoria
```

Generate all structure images at maximum quality for Pictoria, assumes `.vox` is in the current directory:
```bash
Vox2Pictoria --min-tile-x <minTileX> --min-tile-z <minTileZ> --full-samples --full-resolution
```

Specify a vox file, tile coordinates, and output directory:
```bash
Vox2Pictoria ../art/garden.vox --min-tile-x 3 --min-tile-z 5 --full-samples --full-resolution -o ./output
```

### Output Directory Structure

```
<output directory>/
├── bin/
│   ├── structure_infos.json       # Structure data (names, locations, and shapes)
│   └── images/                    # Structure 2D images (one per structure)
│       ├── structure0.png
│       ├── structure1.png
│       └── ...
└── temp/                          # Intermediate files (can be deleted after processing)
```

The `bin/` directory contains the final output. The `temp/` directory contains intermediate files and can be deleted after processing.

## MagicaVoxel Scene Setup
The following guidelines are for preparing a MagicaVoxel scene for use with Vox2Pictoria. They assume some familiarity with MagicaVoxel.

If you are new to MagicaVoxel, we highly recommend watching [MagicaVoxel: The Complete Guide (Tips & Tricks)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=G7TzsxY-7xE) first, for a comprehensive introduction to the tool.

### Coordinate System and Camera Orientation
Here we'll set up MagicaVoxel's coordinate system and camera orientation to match what you'll see in Pictoria.

1. At the bottom right of the MagicaVoxel window, click `Ortho` to switch to orthographic view.
2. At the bottom right of the MagicaVoxel window again, ensure `Show Camera Ruler` (the three squares) and `Show View Cube` (the cube) are enabled.
3. Adjust the rulers so that the horizontal ruler reads `+45` and the vertical ruler reads `-30` - this sets the camera to the classic isometric perspective used in games like Pictoria.

The bottom right of the MagicaVoxel window should now look like this:

![Example MagicaVoxel Axes](Vox2Pictoria/assets/example_magicavoxel_axes.png)

Note that axes in MagicaVoxel differ from those in Pictoria. The mapping is as follows:

| MagicaVoxel | Pictoria |
|-------------|----------|
| -Y          | +X       |
| -X          | +Z       |
| +Z          | +Y       |

Vox2Pictoria handles this conversion automatically.

### Scene Length and Breadth
MagicaVoxel does not provide a way to "set scene length and breadth" directly. Instead, you have to ensure that the bounding box of objects you create matches your desired length and breadth.

How do you determine your "desired length and breadth"?

Before we get to that, this is how MagicaVoxel voxels map to Pictoria tiles: each tile in Pictoria is 32x32 Pictoria cartesian units. Pictoria cartesian units map to MagicaVoxel voxels 1:1, so each Pictoria tile has the same length and breadth as a 32x32 square of MagicaVoxel voxels.

With that in mind, your desired length and breadth should be multiples of 32 so that you can fill your property's tiles.

How can you ensure that your MagicaVoxel scene's length and breadth are multiples of 32? 

The recommended approach is to place objects along the edges first - this could be temporary marker objects, or your actual objects - ensuring that the length and breadth of their bounding box are multiples of 32, e.g. 512 x 256. If you do take this approach, read [Scene Location](#scene-location) first so that your objects are located correctly.

![Example MagicaVoxel Bounding Objects](Vox2Pictoria/assets/example_magicavoxel_bounding_objects.png)

Note that since the length and breadth of your MagicaVoxel scene are multiples of 32, a Pictoria property of `length/32 x breadth/32` tiles will fit it perfectly.

### Scene Height
As with length and breadth, there is no simple way to set your scene's height in MagicaVoxel.

Instead you need to ensure that your objects fit within the height limits defined by Pictoria.

Why does Pictoria have height limits? To prevent structures from visually overlapping neighboring properties, structures near the edge of a property must be shorter than structures near the center. 

The following table maps distance from the property edge (in tiles) to maximum structure height (in MagicaVoxel voxels / Pictoria cartesian units, which, as noted earlier, are equivalent):

| Distance from property edge (tiles) | Max structure height (MagicaVoxel voxels/Pictoria cartesian units) |
|------------------------------------------|-------------------------------|
| 0 | 1 |
| 1 | 52 |
| 2 | 78 |
| 3 | 104 |
| 4 | 130 |
| 5 | 156 |
| 6 | 182 |
| 7 | 209 |
| 8 | 235 |
| 9 | 261 |
| 10 | 287 |
| 11 | 313 |
| 12 | 339 |
| 13 | 365 |
| 14+ | 384 (maximum) |

For example, on a 5x5 tile property, the outermost ring of tiles can only hold structures 1 voxel tall, the next ring allows for structures up to 52 voxels tall, and the center tile allows for structures up to 78 voxels tall.

Remember that each tile is 32x32 voxels in length and breadth, so the "outermost ring of tiles" in MagicaVoxel corresponds to the outermost 32-voxel border of your scene.

### Scene Location
Along the length and breadth axes, your MagicaVoxel scene's center must be at the MagicaVoxel origin (0,0).

So for example, if your scene's MagicaVoxel length and breadth are 512x256 voxels, your scene must span from -256 to +256 on the length axis, and -128 to +128 on the breadth axis.

Along the height axis (z-axis), your scene should start at 0 and extend upwards - in other words, build directly above the MagicaVoxel ground plane.

### Scene Outline
In MagicaVoxel, you can create objects and groups of objects. These are displayed in an outline on the right side of the MagicaVoxel window.

Vox2Pictoria converts each top-level group and object in the MagicaVoxel outline into a single Pictoria structure.

Naming these top-level groups and objects is *mostly* up to you - the exception is shape suffixes.

By default, structures are **cuboid-shaped**. To make a structure a different shape, append `_<shape name>` to the top-level group or object name (e.g. `step_plusZPrism`).

The list below includes all available shape suffixes - note that right-angle prisms are slopes that players can walk up and down:

| Shape suffix | Description |
|-------------|-------------|
| *(none)* | Cuboid |
| `_minusXPrism` | Right-angle prism with vertical face facing the Pictoria -X direction |
| `_minusZPrism` | Right-angle prism with vertical face facing the Pictoria -Z direction |
| `_plusXPrism` | Right-angle prism with vertical face facing the Pictoria +X direction |
| `_plusZPrism` | Right-angle prism with vertical face facing the Pictoria +Z direction |

Below is an example outline. Note the top-level `grass` groups with multiple child objects (`<vox>`). Also note the object with a shape suffix, `step_plusZPrism`:

![Example MagicaVoxel Outline](Vox2Pictoria/assets/example_magicavoxel_outline.png)

Note that Vox2Pictoria assigns output structure names (`structure0`, `structure1`, etc.) automatically based on order.

### Sample Scene
When you download Vox2Pictoria from the [Releases](https://github.com/PictoriaWorld/Vox2Pictoria/releases) page, the downloaded zip file includes `<downloaded folder>/garden.vox`, a sample MagicaVoxel scene you can explore to get an idea of how your scene should be organized.

You can also use it to test Vox2Pictoria by running:

```bash
Vox2Pictoria ./path/to/garden.vox --scene-test-run
```

## Development

This is for advanced users who want to build or modify Vox2Pictoria.

### Requirements
- [.NET 8 SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/download/dotnet/8.0) or later
- [Blender 4.5 LTS](https://www.blender.org/download/releases/4-5/) added to your system PATH

### Building

```bash
cd src/Vox2Pictoria
dotnet build
```

### Running from Source

```bash
cd src/Vox2Pictoria
dotnet run -- [vox-path] [options]
```

### Project Structure

```
src/Vox2Pictoria/
├── Program.cs                    # Entry point and pipeline orchestration
├── Options.cs                    # CLI argument parsing
├── main.py                       # Blender rendering script
├── coordinateSystems/            # Coordinate transformations (MagicaVoxel ↔ Pictoria ↔ isometric)
├── geometry/                     # Math types (Cuboid, Vector3Int, Matrix4x4Int, IsometricPolygon)
├── magicavoxelData/              # .vox file data extraction (StructureInfo, ShapeInfo, FrameInfo)
├── voxels/                       # Voxel grid processing and face visibility calculation
├── objs/                         # OBJ file generation (structure meshes, volumes, occluded faces)
├── postProcessing/               # Image cropping and scaling using volume/occluded renders
└── renderingPrimitives/          # Quad/triangle face definitions for OBJ generation
```

### Architecture

The processing pipeline is fully sequential and deterministic:

1. **VoxDataService** parses the `.vox` scene graph (transforms, groups, shapes, frames) and builds a `StructureInfo` hierarchy
2. **VoxelGridService** creates a spatial grid of all visible voxels with per-face visibility flags (`Visible`, `VisibleAtFrameEdge`, `Hidden`)
3. **StructureObjService** generates textured OBJ meshes by iterating visible voxels and emitting only exposed faces
4. **VolumeObjService** generates bounding volume OBJs (cuboids or prisms) for each structure
5. **OccludedFacesObjService** generates OBJs for faces hidden between adjacent structures (used for post-processing color correction)
6. **Blender** (`main.py`) renders all OBJs with Cycles: first volumes and occluded faces at 32 samples with per-structure cameras, then individual structures at the configured sample count
7. **PostProcessingService** uses the volume renders to determine crop bounds, corrects boundary pixel colors using the occluded face renders, then crops and scales the structure renders to their final dimensions

## License

[MIT](LICENSE)

"Pictoria" and the Pictoria logo are trademarks of Pictoria and are not licensed under this license.

Commit message:

Added "Limits on Number of Structures" section to README.md

README.md, after:

# Vox2Pictoria

![Release](https://github.com/PictoriaWorld/Vox2Pictoria/actions/workflows/release.yml/badge.svg)

A command-line tool that converts [MagicaVoxel](https://ephtracy.github.io/) `.vox` files into art for [Pictoria](https://pictoria.world).

![Vox2Pictoria](Vox2Pictoria/assets/vox_to_pictoria.png)

## Overview

### What is Pictoria?
Pictoria is a web-based, isometric social MMO.

Users buy properties (plots of land) and build structures on them.

Structures can be sized and positioned, as well as textured using uploaded 2D images.

### What is MagicaVoxel?
MagicaVoxel is a free voxel (volumetric pixel/textured cube) art editor with a gentle learning curve.

It allows users, including non-artists, to create beautiful 3D scenes, which can be exported as `.vox` files.

### What is Vox2Pictoria?
Vox2Pictoria is a program that takes a `.vox` file and produces locations, shapes, and 2D images for creating structures in Pictoria.

## Prerequisites
- [MagicaVoxel 0.99.7.2](https://ephtracy.github.io/) (for creating `.vox` files)

## Installation

1. Download the latest release for your platform from the [Releases](https://github.com/PictoriaWorld/Vox2Pictoria/releases) page. 
   - *Note: at the time of this writing, we've only tested the Windows release; feel free to open an issue if you encounter problems on Mac or Linux.*
   - *Also note: the releases are fairly large because they include Blender 4.5 LTS, which is used for rendering.*

2. Extract the zipped folder. Rename it to `Vox2Pictoria` and move it to a permanent location (e.g. `C:\Vox2Pictoria` on Windows or `~/Vox2Pictoria` on Mac/Linux).

3. Configure the executable for CLI usage:

   - **Windows**:
     Search for "environment variables" in the Start menu, click *Edit the system environment variables > Environment Variables*, select `Path` under User variables, click *Edit*, and add the extracted folder path (e.g. `C:\Vox2Pictoria`). Restart your terminal afterward.

   - **Mac**:
     Open Terminal and run the following commands to make the binaries executable and unblock them:
     ```bash
     chmod +x ~/Vox2Pictoria/Vox2Pictoria ~/Vox2Pictoria/blender/blender
     xattr -cr ~/Vox2Pictoria
     ```
     Add `export PATH="$HOME/Vox2Pictoria:$PATH"` to your `~/.zshrc` file to add to PATH permanently.

   - **Linux**:
     Make the binaries executable:
     ```bash
     chmod +x ~/Vox2Pictoria/Vox2Pictoria ~/Vox2Pictoria/blender/blender
     ```
     Add `export PATH="$HOME/Vox2Pictoria:$PATH"` to your `~/.bashrc` file to add to PATH permanently.

4. Verify the installation by opening a new terminal and running:
   ```bash
   Vox2Pictoria --help
   ```

## Usage

1. Create a `.vox` file in MagicaVoxel, following the instructions in [MagicaVoxel Scene Setup](#magicavoxel-scene-setup) below.

2. Open a command line tool like PowerShell on Windows, Terminal on Mac/Linux. Navigate to the directory your `.vox` is in.

3. Run Vox2Pictoria in scene-test-run mode to preview the full scene:

   ```bash
   Vox2Pictoria --scene-test-run
   ```

4. The command above generates a single 2D image of the full scene - `<directory your .vox is in>/temp/renders/scene.png`. Verify that it looks correct - colors, composition, etc. If you decide to make changes to your `.vox`, repeat step 3 to re-preview.

5. Once satisfied, navigate to [Pictoria](https://pictoria.world) in your browser. In Pictoria, navigate to *create > properties > buy* and create a selection of tiles that fits your MagicaVoxel scene.

6. Note down the *Min tile-x* and *Min tile-z* coordinates of your tile selection in Pictoria.

7. Buy the property in Pictoria.

8. Run a full render in the directory your `.vox` is in, specifying the *Min tile-x* and *Min tile-z* coordinates you noted earlier:

   ```bash
   Vox2Pictoria --full-samples --full-resolution --min-tile-x <minTileX> --min-tile-z <minTileZ>
   ```

   *Warning*: This can take several hours to complete, depending on the complexity of your MagicaVoxel scene and the performance of your computer.

9. When step 8 completes, you'll find output images in `bin/images/`. You'll also find `structure_infos.json` in `bin/` - this file contains all of the data you need to create structures in Pictoria (structure names, locations, and shapes).

10. In Pictoria, with the property you created earlier selected (*create > properties > select*), navigate to *edit > structures > create*.

11. Drag on the property to start a selection, then enter a structure's name, location, and shape from the `structure_infos.json` file. Click *Select Images* and upload the corresponding image for the structure from the `bin/images/` directory. Finally, scroll down and click *buy*. Repeat this step for all structures in the `structure_infos.json` file.

12. Congratulations! You have successfully created a property in Pictoria using MagicaVoxel and Vox2Pictoria.

### Arguments

```
Usage: Vox2Pictoria [vox-path] [options]
```

| Argument / Option | Default | Description |
|-------------------|---------|-------------|
| `vox-path` | First `.vox` in current directory | Path to the `.vox` file. |
| `--min-tile-x <int>` | `0` | Minimum tile-X coordinate of the property in Pictoria. |
| `--min-tile-z <int>` | `0` | Minimum tile-Z coordinate of the property in Pictoria. |
| `--scene-test-run` | off | When specified, only a single 2D image of the full scene is rendered. Useful for previewing. |
| `--full-samples` | off | When specified, renders images at maximum quality (2048 Blender Cycles samples) - specify for final render. When not specified, 32 samples are used (faster, useful for previewing). |
| `--full-resolution` | off | When specified, renders a larger image for higher quality after resizing - specify for final render. When not specified, renders a smaller image (faster, useful for previewing). |
| `-o, --output <dir>` | Current directory | Output directory. |
| `-h, --help` | N/A | Show usage information. |

### Examples

Generate a single image of the full scene for previewing, assumes `.vox` is in the current directory:
```bash
Vox2Pictoria --scene-test-run
```

Generate all structure images at low quality for previewing, assumes `.vox` is in the current directory:
```bash
Vox2Pictoria
```

Generate all structure images at maximum quality for Pictoria, assumes `.vox` is in the current directory:
```bash
Vox2Pictoria --min-tile-x <minTileX> --min-tile-z <minTileZ> --full-samples --full-resolution
```

Specify a vox file, tile coordinates, and output directory:
```bash
Vox2Pictoria ../art/garden.vox --min-tile-x 3 --min-tile-z 5 --full-samples --full-resolution -o ./output
```

### Output Directory Structure

```
<output directory>/
├── bin/
│   ├── structure_infos.json       # Structure data (names, locations, and shapes)
│   └── images/                    # Structure 2D images (one per structure)
│       ├── structure0.png
│       ├── structure1.png
│       └── ...
└── temp/                          # Intermediate files (can be deleted after processing)
```

The `bin/` directory contains the final output. The `temp/` directory contains intermediate files and can be deleted after processing.

## MagicaVoxel Scene Setup
The following guidelines are for preparing a MagicaVoxel scene for use with Vox2Pictoria. They assume some familiarity with MagicaVoxel.

If you are new to MagicaVoxel, we highly recommend watching [MagicaVoxel: The Complete Guide (Tips & Tricks)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=G7TzsxY-7xE) first, for a comprehensive introduction to the tool.

### Coordinate System and Camera Orientation
Here we'll set up MagicaVoxel's coordinate system and camera orientation to match what you'll see in Pictoria.

1. At the bottom right of the MagicaVoxel window, click `Ortho` to switch to orthographic view.
2. At the bottom right of the MagicaVoxel window again, ensure `Show Camera Ruler` (the three squares) and `Show View Cube` (the cube) are enabled.
3. Adjust the rulers so that the horizontal ruler reads `+45` and the vertical ruler reads `-30` - this sets the camera to the classic isometric perspective used in games like Pictoria.

The bottom right of the MagicaVoxel window should now look like this:

![Example MagicaVoxel Axes](Vox2Pictoria/assets/example_magicavoxel_axes.png)

Note that axes in MagicaVoxel differ from those in Pictoria. The mapping is as follows:

| MagicaVoxel | Pictoria |
|-------------|----------|
| -Y          | +X       |
| -X          | +Z       |
| +Z          | +Y       |

Vox2Pictoria handles this conversion automatically.

### Scene Length and Breadth
MagicaVoxel does not provide a way to "set scene length and breadth" directly. Instead, you have to ensure that the bounding box of objects you create matches your desired length and breadth.

How do you determine your "desired length and breadth"?

Before we get to that, this is how MagicaVoxel voxels map to Pictoria tiles: each tile in Pictoria is 32x32 Pictoria cartesian units. Pictoria cartesian units map to MagicaVoxel voxels 1:1, so each Pictoria tile has the same length and breadth as a 32x32 square of MagicaVoxel voxels.

With that in mind, your desired length and breadth should be multiples of 32 so that you can fill your property's tiles.

How can you ensure that your MagicaVoxel scene's length and breadth are multiples of 32? 

The recommended approach is to place objects along the edges first - this could be temporary marker objects, or your actual objects - ensuring that the length and breadth of their bounding box are multiples of 32, e.g. 512 x 256. If you do take this approach, read [Scene Location](#scene-location) first so that your objects are located correctly.

![Example MagicaVoxel Bounding Objects](Vox2Pictoria/assets/example_magicavoxel_bounding_objects.png)

Note that since the length and breadth of your MagicaVoxel scene are multiples of 32, a Pictoria property of `length/32 x breadth/32` tiles will fit it perfectly.

### Scene Height
As with length and breadth, there is no simple way to set your scene's height in MagicaVoxel.

Instead you need to ensure that your objects fit within the height limits defined by Pictoria.

Why does Pictoria have height limits? To prevent structures from visually overlapping neighboring properties, structures near the edge of a property must be shorter than structures near the center. 

The following table maps distance from the property edge (in tiles) to maximum structure height (in MagicaVoxel voxels / Pictoria cartesian units, which, as noted earlier, are equivalent):

| Distance from property edge (tiles) | Max structure height (MagicaVoxel voxels/Pictoria cartesian units) |
|------------------------------------------|-------------------------------|
| 0 | 1 |
| 1 | 52 |
| 2 | 78 |
| 3 | 104 |
| 4 | 130 |
| 5 | 156 |
| 6 | 182 |
| 7 | 209 |
| 8 | 235 |
| 9 | 261 |
| 10 | 287 |
| 11 | 313 |
| 12 | 339 |
| 13 | 365 |
| 14+ | 384 (maximum) |

For example, on a 5x5 tile property, the outermost ring of tiles can only hold structures 1 voxel tall, the next ring allows for structures up to 52 voxels tall, and the center tile allows for structures up to 78 voxels tall.

Remember that each tile is 32x32 voxels in length and breadth, so the "outermost ring of tiles" in MagicaVoxel corresponds to the outermost 32-voxel border of your scene.

### Scene Location
Along the length and breadth axes, your MagicaVoxel scene's center must be at the MagicaVoxel origin (0,0).

So for example, if your scene's MagicaVoxel length and breadth are 512x256 voxels, your scene must span from -256 to +256 on the length axis, and -128 to +128 on the breadth axis.

Along the height axis (z-axis), your scene should start at 0 and extend upwards - in other words, build directly above the MagicaVoxel ground plane.

### Scene Outline
In MagicaVoxel, you can create objects and groups of objects. These are displayed in an outline on the right side of the MagicaVoxel window.

Vox2Pictoria converts each top-level group and object in the MagicaVoxel outline into a single Pictoria structure.

Naming these top-level groups and objects is *mostly* up to you - the exception is shape suffixes.

By default, structures are **cuboid-shaped**. To make a structure a different shape, append `_<shape name>` to the top-level group or object name (e.g. `step_plusZPrism`).

The list below includes all available shape suffixes - note that right-angle prisms are slopes that users can walk up and down:

| Shape suffix | Description |
|-------------|-------------|
| *(none)* | Cuboid |
| `_minusXPrism` | Right-angle prism with vertical face facing the Pictoria -X direction |
| `_minusZPrism` | Right-angle prism with vertical face facing the Pictoria -Z direction |
| `_plusXPrism` | Right-angle prism with vertical face facing the Pictoria +X direction |
| `_plusZPrism` | Right-angle prism with vertical face facing the Pictoria +Z direction |

Below is an example outline. Note the top-level `grass` groups with multiple child objects (`<vox>`). Also note the object with a shape suffix, `step_plusZPrism`:

![Example MagicaVoxel Outline](Vox2Pictoria/assets/example_magicavoxel_outline.png)

Note that Vox2Pictoria assigns output structure names (`structure0`, `structure1`, etc.) automatically based on order.

### Limits on Number of Structures
Pictoria limits the number of structures your property can have in a chunk, based on the number of tiles your property has in that chunk.

What does this mean?

Firstly, let's define a chunk: a chunk is a 16x16 square of tiles in Pictoria. When buying a property (*create > properties > buy*), you can toggle "Show Chunk Borders" to see chunk borders:

![Example Pictoria Chunk Structure Limits](Vox2Pictoria/assets/example_pictoria_chunk_structure_limits.png)

For every 2 tiles your property has in a chunk, you can build 1 structure on your property, in that chunk.

Note that if your property has an odd number of tiles in a chunk, the number of structures you can build on the property, in that chunk, is rounded up.

Using the above image as an example, the property in it spans 4 chunks: 

- In the left chunk it has 50 tiles, allowing for 25 structures (50/2).
- In the top chunk it has 5 tiles, allowing for 3 structures (5/2 rounded up).
- In the right chunk it has 1 tile, allowing for 1 structure (1/2 rounded up).
- In the bottom chunk it has 10 tiles, allowing for 5 structures (10/2).

Why does this limit exist?

It is necessary to prevent users from creating excessive numbers of structures in small areas, which could lead to performance issues for some users.

### Sample Scene
When you download Vox2Pictoria from the [Releases](https://github.com/PictoriaWorld/Vox2Pictoria/releases) page, the downloaded zip file includes `<downloaded folder>/garden.vox`, a sample MagicaVoxel scene you can explore to get an idea of how your scene should be organized.

You can also use it to test Vox2Pictoria by running:

```bash
Vox2Pictoria ./path/to/garden.vox --scene-test-run
```

## Development

This is for advanced users who want to build or modify Vox2Pictoria.

### Requirements
- [.NET 8 SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/download/dotnet/8.0) or later
- [Blender 4.5 LTS](https://www.blender.org/download/releases/4-5/) added to your system PATH

### Building

```bash
cd src/Vox2Pictoria
dotnet build
```

### Running from Source

```bash
cd src/Vox2Pictoria
dotnet run -- [vox-path] [options]
```

### Project Structure

```
src/Vox2Pictoria/
├── Program.cs                    # Entry point and pipeline orchestration
├── Options.cs                    # CLI argument parsing
├── main.py                       # Blender rendering script
├── coordinateSystems/            # Coordinate transformations (MagicaVoxel ↔ Pictoria ↔ isometric)
├── geometry/                     # Math types (Cuboid, Vector3Int, Matrix4x4Int, IsometricPolygon)
├── magicavoxelData/              # .vox file data extraction (StructureInfo, ShapeInfo, FrameInfo)
├── voxels/                       # Voxel grid processing and face visibility calculation
├── objs/                         # OBJ file generation (structure meshes, volumes, occluded faces)
├── postProcessing/               # Image cropping and scaling using volume/occluded renders
└── renderingPrimitives/          # Quad/triangle face definitions for OBJ generation
```

### Architecture

The processing pipeline is fully sequential and deterministic:

1. **VoxDataService** parses the `.vox` scene graph (transforms, groups, shapes, frames) and builds a `StructureInfo` hierarchy
2. **VoxelGridService** creates a spatial grid of all visible voxels with per-face visibility flags (`Visible`, `VisibleAtFrameEdge`, `Hidden`)
3. **StructureObjService** generates textured OBJ meshes by iterating visible voxels and emitting only exposed faces
4. **VolumeObjService** generates bounding volume OBJs (cuboids or prisms) for each structure
5. **OccludedFacesObjService** generates OBJs for faces hidden between adjacent structures (used for post-processing color correction)
6. **Blender** (`main.py`) renders all OBJs with Cycles: first volumes and occluded faces at 32 samples with per-structure cameras, then individual structures at the configured sample count
7. **PostProcessingService** uses the volume renders to determine crop bounds, corrects boundary pixel colors using the occluded face renders, then crops and scales the structure renders to their final dimensions

## License

[MIT](LICENSE)

"Pictoria" and the Pictoria logo are trademarks of Pictoria and are not licensed under this license.
